---
title: Let's Git and Hub it !
date: 2023-04-16
categories: [networking, DevOps, Git, GitHub, Version control]
tags: [networking, devops, git, github]
author: herald
---

## Start making hands dirty with and Github!

### The Tale

It was the summer of 2017, and my friends and I had decided to make a short film for a contest in our town. We were all enthusiastic about the project, but none of us had any specific roles in filmmaking, so we all ended up doing a bit of everything.

As with any film, we started by writing the story. We all had a clear idea of the point we wanted to make through the film, so we put our heads together and penned down the first part of the story. At the end of the day, we took copies of the already written story to develop and add our individual ideas.

The next morning, we ended up with seven different versions of the same story! To make matters worse, some of the stories were developed from different points of the story than others. We were frustrated and overwhelmed by the pile of papers in front of us.

That's when it hit us: what if we had a version control system to track all the changes and merge them? Little did we know that a system had already been created 12 years earlier in 2005 by Linus Torvalds, one of the greatest minds in tech today! Linus is also the creator of the Linux operating system.

If only we had known about Git back then, it would have saved us so much time and effort in managing all those different versions of the story. But hey, you know it now let's start Git-ting!

### The Path

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/ePdzRZYOciM" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>